How does The Grinder stack up with a commercial tool like Mercury
Interactive's LoadRunner? Here is an edited version of Tom Braverman's
(tom.braverman@bea.com) summary of

- The Grinder is lightweight

   Compared to setting up loadRunner or some other full featured tool,
   Grinder is trivial to install and get running.

- The Grinder is a "programmer's load tester"

   Too often, programmers defer load testing to some other group
   (e.g., QA) and don't test their own components for scalability. The
   Grinder is designed for people who understand the code that they're
   hitting - it's not just a "black box" with a set of associated
   response times.

   Since tests are coded - and not simply scripted, programmers get to
   test interior tiers of their application and not just response time
   via the user interface.

- The Grinder is free

   I'm a consulting professional and I have to come up with solutions
   to deadlocks and slowdowns. Sometimes I only have hours to recreate
   a problem and then attempt to resolve it. I can't count on my
   client having a given load testing tool and many (most?)
   development teams don't have any such tool (they defer this type of
   testing to QA as mentioned above). I can bring The Grinder in and
   set it up and apply load quite quickly.

Summarizing: I don't try and persuade my clients that The Grinder is a
replacement for LoadRunner, etc. I tell them that The Grinder is for
use by the developers and that they'll still want the QA team to
generate scalability metrics using LoadRunner or some other tool
approved for the purpose by management.

Story: One client was attempting to determine scalability based on
LoadRunner. The LoadRunner team - with no understanding at all of the
app - was telling them that some pages were giving response times of
30 seconds. The project manager knew this was patent BS since he could
hit the enter key on his page and only count to 3 or 4 before the page
displayed. The client spent many resource days attempting to
understand LoadRunner numbers. Within a few hours, The Grinder was up
and running and reporting numbers that appeared to track with the user
experience. The Grinder became the gold standard that the client used
to measure LoadRunner.
